---
layout: post
title: "Untitled 001"
date: 2026-06-11
---

## Intro/Vent 💭

For a day now, I've had this urge to consume all, from blogs, to essays, to
short stories... yet I know, deep down, that nothing's going to fill the void
and honestly? The void's only getting bigger and my brain feels like it's
getting more fried by the attempt; as if it's turning to mush as it's not even
processing any of what it's consuming. No real digestion, just doom-reading.
Writing like this... what I call venting feels better because it feels and
looks I'm letting off steam. All the different essays and articles and topics
in the world that I find interesting are supposed to stimulate my mind in order
to think even more on its own, but because I'm jumping from one thing to the
other, it's not processing well and also it's not benefiting, when I need
regurgitation, I am simply ingurgitating. 

## Airpods Paired with PC 💙🦷

Saying all that, I also managed to connect the airpods that my dad gave me in
the *Eid-Adhha*. They're not really Airpods, I think. Because that term should
be reserved for the Apple ones, no? I'm not sure. They're not really good, sort
of low quality, and they sound weird; for instance, I feel like the bass or the
drum beats are too loud, and the whole thing sounds too loud in my ears. I
actually have to keep it a notch or two more than the bare minimum. The reason
that, I feel like this is an achievement is because I didn't have bluetooth set
up on my archlinux+dwm setup. So following instructions from the Archwiki, and
several other sources, I managed to get it done. I've of course stumbled upon
problems along the way, not really problems, like issues. For instance, why
does rfkill (tool for enabling and disabling wireless devices) keep
softblocking the bluetooth on startup? So I still have to unblock Bluetooth on
each reboot. And then the whole bluetoothctl tool, is pretty nice and easy to
use; not the most intuitive but still gets the job done. I find it funny that
in order to connect to a device, you connect to its MAC address, you actually
have to type the MAC address not the just the name you give the device... to be
fair, there is the tab completion for the lazy.

## Bash Banished, Zesty Zsh says, "Zoink! You were a moron for not using me!"🦴

The other cool thing that I managed to set up, and I'd wanted to do this for a
long time now is change my default shell from BASH to ZSH. So I have a kind of
history with shells. So I mostly know bash, zsh, fish, and dash. There are some
old and more muscl ones like bsch or whatever but yeah, for the longest time
and even now I for some reason couldn't wrap my head around POSIX and Unix
philosophy, and the differences between pure shell script (POSIX-compliant) and
what's called "bashisms" or whatever. Nonetheless, I still want to learn shell
scripting but every time I try to go and do it, I reach for some LLM to
generate the code for me, code that's infected with blasphemous bashisms
(potential! POTENTIAL right there! let's not make this too meta and ironic.
Irony ruins everything).

Nonetheless, of course I started with bash early on and for as long as I can
remember didn't give it much thought but looking at people's terminals on
YouTube (a terrible thing, don't do it) I've noticed that their terminals were
fancier than mine, but more impressively more powerful. I've seen features like
you feel like they should and probably do exist such as, command history and
autosuggestions  from history (without AI, can you believe it? I think
someone's already made one, let me look it up real quick... yep, couldn't be
more right, it's called, **smart suggestion for zsh**): Get AI-powered command
suggestions **directly** in your zsh shell [^1]).

So since, I was on bash, I attempted to add these features to it. So an easy
but bloated solution was recommended most likely in some Reddit thread: ble.sh
(Bash Line Editor—a line editor written in pure Bash with syntax highlighting,
auto suggestions, vim modes, etc. For Bash interactive sessions [^2]) I've
found many issues with it, mainly just loads of useless stuff alongside very
useful stuff, but the terminal kept breaking, I couldn't copy commands properly
because I believe my terminal back then (st or alacritty or something else)
didn't gel very well with the new bloated bashrc that I felt like I couldn't
control. But I've used that setup for quite some time and sort of gotten used
to it, but in reality, deep down, I knew it wouldn't last long. 

Lo, and behold... it did not. I discarded the whole thing and went back to a
more minimal bashrc but then when I discovered that some very famous Linux guru
from the land of the tubes, and I saw that they used zsh. That's when it felt
like, "Hmm, zsh sounds more powerful (just from the name) but perhaps, slower,
and more bloated than bash?" So as usual, I went on to try zsh, and I stumbled
upon oh-my-zsh, which is like this zsh zealot cult (I'm slightly exaggerating)
and it was better than ble.sh but suffered from the same issues: bloat!

This talk about bloat is honestly another topic of its own, but for me, if a
tool has features that I have to disable or some config file that I have to
read through, disable or comment, and tweak in order to fit my preferences when
I don't know what or how some features work, meaning, that the tool is sort of
doing things that I either don't know or don't want or don't know that I want
or don't know that I don't want, especially for something like a shell. Oh and
by the way, I'm making my own shell with the help of codecrafters (this will be
another essay/blog).

Nevertheless, I ditched oh-my-zsh (an atheist equivalent to "Oh my God!"?
I know this from Scott Alexander, "[They] use “Oh my Cthulhu!” as an
atheist substitute for “Oh my God”" [^3]) long ago until yesterday
(2026-06-11) and set zsh up, and it was easy-peasy, I must say. It had a
much nicer interface (to be fair, bash probably has something similar but
never encountered it) and got all the features that I once wished for,
especially autosuggestion.

## BASH vs ZSH

They're not the same but somewhat the same...? Essentially, zsh is easier to
customise then bash. With zsh, you're going to bash your head a little bit less
so suck—I mean, bash-less (they should hire me for these awesome slogans).

[^1]: [smart-suggestion](https://github.com/yetone/smart-suggestion)
[^2]: [ble.sh](https://github.com/akinomyoga/ble.sh)
[^3]: [Slate Star Codex](https://slatestarcodex.com/2013/02/19/i-liked-lovecraft-countless-primaeval-aeons-before-it-was-cool/) 
